---
layout: post
title: Random Questions with (potentially) substantial answers
date: 2008-04-30 09:36
author: admin
comments: true
categories: [Philosophy]
---
1) Is Conspiracy theory a new form of entertainment?<br /><br />What used to be a very select group of individuals, conspiracy theorists are now becoming more widespread and becoming accepted as more legitimate sources of knowledge, even though it is clear that theorists can never be completely correct(hence the name theorist).<br /><br />Also  more people are talking about the latest conspiracy theory which is 9/11. Are the public becoming more liberal? As I have seen so many different versions of events and so much media  is now publicly available, especially with people owning the means of producing the media (eg. mobile phones, video cameras).<br /><br />Now so called consipiracy theorists experts are just average joes, that can read up on almost any scientific paper or journal and piece together a very convincing story. Also everyone can talk about it, as the information is processed in a way that most of the general public can talk about it, thus meaning the only real thing to debate about is morality and who knows the most information.<br /><br />And we seem to be waiting for the government to come out with a response and the theorists are still trying to find more and more convincing ideas with evidence to convince as many as possible. But since it very rarely affects the running of the government, what is the effect? Is it now just regarded as a form of entertainment?<br /><br />2) What is the new social? Are we becoming more anti-social in the old way?<br /><br />What am I talking about here? It is the power of new communication and the ability to communicate without being there in person. Now I know that this idea has been around since the invention of the telephone or even when people could write letters. But is it now becoming more apparent since the invention of the internet? I think it still works both ways but at the same time it doesn't...<br /><br />So I talk to some random person on the internet, am I going to meet that person in real life? Unless I am completely retarded I don't think so. But at the same time they can be considered as a friend but in a different way, not one I can see or touch but still share ideas, talk about my day and whatever you would normally do with friends.<br /><br />But still the old idea of socialising still exists but is further enhanced  by the internet or telephone. So friends can communicate across the world for months at a time, girlfriends can keep their boyfriends even if they do go to another university but will never see them for months at a time. So internet can keep people together if they have already meet in real life. But what I really want to get down to here is at what point does it become where you spend more time talking your friends online then in real life? Can it really be justified? It seems it can, as people do it everyday to not only friends but family, co workers... everyone, infact.
