---
layout: post
title: Don't believe in god, don't like him either
date: 2008-05-05 18:09
author: admin
comments: true
categories: [Random]
---
I think I have coined a phrase which I believe more often. "I only believe in god because I hate him." But lets digress and analyse the background. Well me personally I don't believe in god, but there was alway something nagging at the back of my mind as, how to explain things which can not be explained. I always said that I don't believe in god but there is something there. But that can be confusing, I mean isn't that what god is? Something that is there that can't be explained or something that is there which creates things that can't be explained. Anyway lets get back to the main subject. I think there is something there. I have bad luck in one area of life (guess which one) but I did what every human does, find the problem and fix it. Basically the make the problem so small that it would be statistically impossible for that crop up again and you keep going in that fashion until you are happy that next time everything will run smoothly. So from all my experiance over the years it is possible to counter every eventuality and even if something unexpected comes up you have enough know-how and guts to carry it through. Until a point come where you think you have cracked it, no more obstacles, no more risks needed to be taken. You take a deep breath and dive in, you go through all your years of analysis, you take every precaution and you come out the other end. There, it was done (so you think). Time passes by and (not really problems but) little nags come through but that was expected so remember them and carry on. Then it gets better and better until a day comes, as random as the one before and different to the one ahead of you. On this day what you thought was normal, got changed upside down and in a few words, a few seconds your years of preperation come to the test. Except thats it you were so wrapped up that there can be no prepration. I remember that Casino Royale (james bond film) he said "I have no armour left and what I did have was stripped away from you" (or something like that). That is basically what happened, you get hurt the same way as before and your thinking but I thought I prepared for this, this shouldn't happen but you see that leads to the thought that there is someone up there and he/she is playing. No matter how hard you try and I will most likely keep trying, no matter how hard you push the odds and learn from your mistakes, there is always something. I think that something is probably god but then again I don't believe in him.
