---
layout: post
title: Time
date: 2008-05-05 18:08
author: admin
comments: true
categories: [Philosophy]
---
Due to my growing popularity of these notes (ok, only one[as in only one note and only one person has read it]). I thought I might just carry on with my random ramblings and give more insight to life. And what is today's topic, well its time. Yes time and I know what you are thinking, what the hell is he on about? Well you look at the watch and it tells you the time. Thats it, nothing more nothing less, nada. But you see that is not it. Why do you look at the watch? Mostly likely I have found it is not because someone has to be somewhere at sometime, no, no, it because they just need to know the time. That all there is to it, they feel that by just finding out the time it's like the sudden fix for them. I read this facinating book actually called "Time" and I think it changed my life (well pushed it further to what I want my life to be). Basically we are controlled by time, everything we do or don't do is controlled by time, whole civililisations are controlled by time(A bit over the top but you will see). First off lets pick any object. Ok, so umm the shaver. Thats a bit random but here we go. People used to shave using a cut-throat razor some shaving cream and it took about 40 minutes so they don't kill themselves while trying to shave. A couple of decades down the line the disposable razor comes out, does exactly the same job. Then again further down the line the electric razor comes out again the same thing. All three do the same job, even some people argue a cut-thoat does a better job. But what is the difference?? Well its time, basically they all did the same job but in a much quicker time, I mean with an electric I can do it in 5 minutes but normal 15-20. Then after that book I began to look around and see what other things did that and in a sense nearly everything did. The bike was replaced by the car. The hand wash by the washing machine. All these did was save time for something just took a bit longer. And now this obsession takes all types of wierd forms. I was in resturant just recently, when some said aren't you supposed to meet someone back at home. I was thinking yeah but what is a few minutes, I will wait (even though a few minutes turned into half an hour but that has nothing to do with this) but seriously a few minutes is nothing. They then said really you should go(5 minutes passed by then, so I was going to be 5 minutes late) and I knew the people waiting for me where not going anywhere and me getting there early was not going to do anything. By this point the other person was more worried about me being late then I was. But it try for yourself just sit a few minutes on your own and think of nothing. I don't mean pray or meditate just do nothing and it feels like a lifetime. If you just spend a few minutes extra with someone again it goes along way. But I falling far away from the subject here. I lived with my family and I had a chacha (uncle) who was, I would say obsessed with time. Everything he said or did, he wanted to it quickly. But me a stubborn sort of guy just refused to do it. He would say get this for example, and hurry up. But why hurry why not just take your time. he would get so irrated and once he said why are you so slow? Like there was something wrong with me. But I just thought to myself it just feels better when I take my time. Almost everyday I see people running around, like crazy. I think have they achieved more because of that or just saved about 5 minutes in a day(which they probably used up in trying to get their breath back). I mean even coca cola, the only drink you can't make from concentrate(as in you add water to it to make into coke) if you think about it, you just buy it and drink it, whereas most drinks you buy and probaly add water. Is it because you save time and can't wait till you get back home!? And now back to the watch, you look at the watch and you feel good because you know what the time is and you think your in control. You know what to do and when. Nearly everthing you own is a form that was the most time saving, just like how computers get faster and faster, just to run everything faster and faster. How people use microwaves or just eat fast food. Yes bacause they are probably lazy but also because it saves time. And right now I have run out of time, why because it 3am and my body is just tired. But I can guess what people are doing now, studing (because they just don't have enough time in the day) with their study book (which promise to give a concise and quick way of learning, why because there isn't enough time in the course to learn it properly). While taking their pro plus and red bull so they sleep less (why sleep less, well I think you guessed by now)
