---
layout: post
title: Technology
date: 2008-05-05 18:07
author: admin
comments: true
categories: [Philosophy]
---
Well this is a bit short at the moment but will continue to expand, as I get more bored and try my best not to do any work.<br />Hmm, where shall I start? Well first off, I was thinking about how many friends I made at uni. I came here with the idea to visit (and make friends with) as many people as I can. yeah maybe it's sad but I thought it was a good idea to make me more sociable. In fact I made a point of going into as many of my friends flats as possible, to kind of set a record for myself. Anyway getting back to the point, I wondered back to when my family were telling me about uni and how you meet loads of people and you are always going out. So I came and for the first weeks it was just like that, but then after it died down but that was still expected as people start their course and slowly migrate to doing work. But I was still thinking I'm sure it is supposed to be more sociable then this? So I wondered what is keeping people (generally not physically) apart?<br /><br /><span></span><div><wbr><span class="word_break"></span><span>--------------------------</span><wbr><span class="word_break"></span><span>--------------------------</span><wbr><span class="word_break"></span>--------------------<br />Phones....<br />Ok your mobile, everyone has one and most can't live without. I'm sure you had that day when you have left your phone behind and all broke loose when you got back. Or all you worried about was your phone that day. Well it is a pretty important device, you can talk to anyone ,anytime(well virtually). But I thought what happened in the good old days(bout 10 years ago) when most people had no phones. But more specifically what happened in uni? Well think about it. I can assume everyone still has landlines in their halls but nowadays no-one uses them, right? But back in the day they must have been ringing like hell. I mean if every person talked on the one landline(if you are sharing one between 8) as much as they talk on their mobile phone today, it would be crazy.<br /><br />So most people would have to actually meet up person to person. That means in a campus lots of moving around and if you always had your friends over in the flat and your flatmates had theirs, eventually they should, but not all the time, just mix up. So your group of friends would be everyone else's groups of friends.<br /><br /><span> con't...............(somet</span><wbr><span class="word_break"></span>ime in the future)<br /><br /><span> --------------------------</span><wbr><span>--------------------------</span><wbr><span>--------------------------</span><wbr><br />Computers<br /><br />Ok another important one here. Back in the day again, not many people had computers. This rules out a lot of entertainment and communication already. nowadays people actually message each other even if they are just one room away!! I mean I'm sure people would just knock on the door and talk to them. But that raises another point, would you actually do that? Just imagine for a moment that your MSN stopped just while you were talking to your flatmate, would you carry on the conversation by going over?<br />Then you have the whole "I watch 3 seasons of family guy on my laptop", I mean I'm sure again that people in one flat used to get together to watch there favourite soap or cartoon on tv. So everyone would get together, that means socialising, sharing the experiance etc..<br /><br />Then you have the WoW syndrome, yeah it is a growing factor in uni. When can you spend a good night say 6 hours going out, getting plastered thats a good night, but then you can also spend 6 hours on World of Warcraft or just any online game and (somehow) get the same satisfying experiance, but are you being more or less social?You can answer that. Now back then I'm very sure they didn't have that and if they did it would mean someone inviting their friends over and telling them to bring their P.Cs over, Instead of meeting "online". Again this goes to back to campus movement and the need to mix with other people. Even with simple things like ringing the doorbell and your friends flatmate answers, that is meeting new people.<br /><br />Since hopefully you are a nice person and will actually to talk to them as they escort you through the flat. ;-)<br /><br />con't..............(again sometime in the future)<br /><br /><br />Please bear in mind I'm not against technology, infact I need it for my course and to keep me amused!!!!!!</div>
