---
layout: post
title: Unknown - Assassins Creed
date: 2008-04-28 23:54
author: admin
comments: true
categories: [Old Life]
---
The camera starts off with overhead shot of highrise tower buildings(New York-esque) the camera is scrolling across the landscape, with a voiceover describing the events that, in world history ,led up to now.<br /><br />"It is a few years after the great third world war and many nations have suffered the blow, especially since the use of nuclear weapons have obliterated countries and continents. But the world is slowly starting to recover from the brink of disaster. Many people have also been affected by the effect of war. Mentally and Physically."<br /><br />The camera the pans up to the horizon to see desolate landscapes and towers that have fallen to bits. It then zooms across quickly to an abandoned warehouse on the outer edge of town. It is night and there is a lone watchman walking across the gantry that overlooks the partially covered glass ceiling.  He is slowly whistling away while checking out his submachine gun. A figure darts across the background just outside his vision. The radio crackles into life:<br />"Any contact?"<br />Th guard just shakes head.<br />"No, I mean who the hell would come out here anyway, there are deadzones all over the place."<br />"Just keep your eyes open."<br />"Ok, ok as long as I get paid I don't care."<br /><br />Just at that moment a shadowed figure slides up to him and dissects him in half with a samurai type sword. No sound except the thump as his body parts fall and hit the ground. The figure the proceeds to lower him(her)self in to the warehouse floor through a gap in one of the many broken windows in the roof.<br /><br />The fall looks long and any human attempt at the drop would result in broken bones, but he takes it anyway and lands in a smooth drop behind some crates.<br /><br />At that moment a motorcade pulls up in to the warehouses some serious looking mob guys step out of their cars and proceed to have a meeting in this warehouse. It seems that they are trading in a very valuable commodity, human lives. The ninja/assassin looks on and tries to gather as much info as he can. The cars start to pack up and leave, as they just about leave the warehouse the ninja then plants a tracking device(just by throwing it on the boot) on one of the cars.<br /><br />Next scene:<br />It is day and again the camera is in a scrolling landscape mode, voice-over.<br /><br />"As nations recover it has become clear that nuclear radiation has the worst effect in the war. It has not only created physical problems, social disputes occur as well. As a result many people live in isolated, walled communities which are the only safe havens from the rest of the nuclear irradiated country which are called deadzones, where no one dares to venture and it maybe many centuries before they do. The deadzones cover almost 99% of the world and people would only travel between communities if and when it is needed. Although more recently people have started to re-populate city centres. Another result of nuclear war is the mutation effect it has on the population. Many people have dies from just radiation poisoning along and the ones that survived have been shunned from society and forced to live in these deadzones but there are a select few that have gained from these effects."<br /><br />The scene switches again, it now raining and we are outside a one of these communities. This particular shot is outside one of entrances to the community. It is a 50 metre iron clad gate with a 2 man security rotational shift patrol and to access the community you have to cross a moat which has bridges connecting the entrances to the outside world.<br /><br />A motorcade pulls up outside the gate, it is the same on that is being tagged. The guards check it over and let it proceed. They quickly run back in to a little hut to shield from the rain. Outside the ninja is standing on the bridge, the visibility is very poor due to the heavy torrents of rain. He decides not to take out the guards as he needs presence protected for now, he waits for another car to show up. He is hiding behind some basic shrubs on a upward slope opposite the community complex. This car is on its own, he throws a grenade type object at it, the driver doesn't see and it explodes but no damage is caused instead the car engine just dies and the driver hops out to see what went wrong. While the driver runs over to the guards the ninja/assassin then gets into the boot of the car. The driver gets back with help from the guards and the he proceeds in the community. The assassin is in...<br /><br />The rains has cleared but it is heavily overcast. Inside the complex is a self contained and self sustained community but it was located in a densely populated portion of the previous city. So where there were playgrounds are now greenhouses but the playground features still remain eg. painted sports line markings. 3 story apartment buildings are converted into makeshift farms. The camera goes over these images and shows people working in these buildings. It eventually catches up to our protagonist who is sitting on a building terrace. He is watching the street below which is a t junction, in this part of the community there is nothing being used, the only life in the street is some birds at the junction below fighting over a piece of meat. The assassin slowly sets up a weapon on the terrace, it is not clear how he got it since he came in the boot of a car with no belongings.  Eventually the weapon is setup and it is a sniper rifle. He calibrates the sight and checks the weapon over, he points down the rifle and aims at one of the birds. The shot rings out and he confirms the time of death, he line up another shot but he is deliberately aiming much higher then any of the bird on the ground. He just waits....<br /><br />The motorcade pulls up and his sight is lined perfectly to the limousine passenger window. His finger rests on the trigger and the sight doesn't move. The passenger opens the door. A man in his 30s wearing a suit. All the other doors on the rest of the cars open and it seems the rest are filled with his bodyguards. They all spread out the length of the motorcade. The camera changes to an interior shot of the limo. The main target of the assassin is still standing outside admiring the air and calls one of the bodyguards over. The camera moves back through the car and shows another passenger, all gagged and bound, trying to wriggle around as if trying to get out of the car. A hostage..<br /><br />The camera moves outside to the main target and his bodyguard.<br />"Have you got a light?"<br />The body guard checks his pockets and cheap disposable lighter comes out. He tries to light it but the wind quickly blows it out.<br />The view changes back to the assassin, who still has the target in his sight and upon seeing the lighter go out he adjusts the scope slightly to take wind into consideration. His finger is seen squeezing the trigger slowly.<br />"Just give it me."<br />The main target grabs the lighter. The bodyguard tries to shield it from the wind as the main target lights it up.<br /><br />QUE SLOW MOTION.<br /><br />The camera zooms up close to the lighter as the target tries to light it up and the flints is seen with sparks slowly coming off and catching the gas coming from the main body. The flame lights up.<br />It then switches to the assassin's finger as it makes a final squeeze on the trigger. And the bullet is loaded and then detonated in the chamber, the camera follows the bullet path as it travels down to street level.<br /><br />QUE TITLE SEQUENCE<br /><br />Th camera follows the bullets spin, up on which writing can be seen on the bullet(indicating the film title) and some weird funky title sequence follows.<br /><br />END TITLE<br /><br />The camera is still following the bullet path.<br />The bullet reaches the street, it penetrates the hands of the body guard, goes through the flame of the lighter and then hits the main targets artery in the throat before going into the limo behind him and getting lodged into he leather seat.  Chaos follows...<br /><br />All the other bodyguards are put on high alert, they start scanning the building rooftops to find the sniper but it seems for a second that he is home and dry. Another figure comes from a another car in the motorcade his is masked from the nose down and wears a cape type object from the waist down. He stands out from the rest of the bodyguards. Dressed all in a hooded black clothing, he ignores all that is going on around him. There is shouting and bodyguards running around trying to get the main target to safety, even though there is no hope for him. The dark figure steps in the exact place where the main target was shot, in the background the bodyguard with the lighter is screaming in agony as his holding both his hands with blood all over him. But from the view of the dark figure the noise is dampened out, as he is trying to locate the sniper using some psychic ability.<br /><br />He slowly raises his arm and points at a building.<br /><br />END SLOW MOTION<br /><br />"The man is in there."<br />All the bodyguards stop what they doing and look at the dark figure. One steps up to him.<br />"Are you sure?"<br />The dark figure just looks back with just his eyes piercing through the shadow of his hood. The body guard takes that as an acknowledgement.<br /><br />Another shot rings out just barely missing the dark figure on the street and hitting the bodyguard standing next him. A shimmering light emerges where the bullet seemed to deflect away from the dark hooded figure. The other bodyguards start loading their submachine guns, while the rest run to a truck in the motorcade and start to unload the contents from the back.<br /><br />"Ok, men" One bodyguard shouts, he is probably the team leader,"FIRE!"<br /><br />They start unloading their rounds into the top of the building chipping away at the brickwork and the ledge that forms part of the terrace.<br /><br />The camera moves back to the assassin on the roof. He is hiding below the ledge trying to break up the sniper rifle while the plaster and bricks are slowly fluttering over his head and the pinging of bullets are flying cracking the brickwork infront of him. He tries to crawl to one side of the roof but the immense firepower is keeping him pinned down.<br /><br />On the ground, the bodyguards unpack the contents of the boxes from the truck (M224) mortar cannons.  They set them up on the ground all facing the building.  The automatic fire stops and the assassin  can finally get his breath back. He takes a quick peek over the chipped ledge and a few shots from someone's high calibre rifle sends him back behind cover but he saw what he needed to see, the mortars. He knows he has to make a run for it. From his position there is a straight run to the other side of the terrace and the building.<br /><br />The camera changes to a bunch of bodyguards making their way up the building and they are nearly on the top floor where the sniper is residing. The  assassin(sniper) has the weapon broken down and just keeps the main chamber on him,with a small round. He checks all his pockets and gear and prepares himself.<br /><br />The camera goes to the street. The dark figure is still there analysing the situation and the assassin. The mortars fire... There is a loud whistling sound as they arc their way to the target but as the building is so close the the mortars the angle is very steep.<br /><br />The assassin hears the mortars firing and times the countdown before they land(I know he is very clever). At the last second he leaps forward in one bound and starts a flatout sprint to the other side of the building away from the street. More bullets zip by his ears and the mortars explode behind him destroying the roof and collapsing the floor. The bodyguards burst out of the door onto the roof, just in time to see the assassin run past in a blaze of speed and energy. They all bundle out onto the roof top and run around the corner just in time to see the assassin reaching the end of the roof. They smile and slowly raise their guns getting ready to shot when he stops... but he doesn't he just jumps of the end of the roof.<br /><br />CUE SLOW MOTION.<br /><br />The assassin spins in the air to face the roof that he just jumped from. With the broken down sniper rifle in one hand and he pulls out a pistol from his other holster. He starts firing at the bodyguards but aims to disable them not kill them. He takes down all of them in the legs without one of them firing a shot. As he is falling through the air the holsters both guns and tumbles into a standing position. Only to land on a car...<br /><br />END SLOW MOTION.<br /><br />He lands with a crouch and the car has a small dent but the ground ripples with a small wave and the concrete cracks, its as if he concentrated the energy of the fall to the ground instead of the car. The damage wasn't that significant even though he dropped 6 stories. He pulls out a keyfob and presses it, the car beeps into life.<br /><br />The camera pans and zoom to the end of the road. Another group of people round the corner, this time wearing military uniform, one of them has a rocket launcher. The assassin spots this and raises his sniper rifle to take him down before he can fire a rocket off. He jumps off the car and fires the shot while in mid-air.<br /><br />CUE SLOW MOTION.<br /><br />The bullet fires from the rifle and the camera tracks the bullet but it is too late the rocket man fires. While the bullet is flying toward the rocket man, his rocket is flying toward the car. The bullet and rocket pass within an inch of each other, the camera spins at this point and follows the path of the rocket. In the background the assassin can still be seen on mid air and the rocket collides with the car.<br /><br />END SLOW MOTION.<br /><br />The car explodes and the assassin is catapulted in the air, through the window of the adjacent building. He breaks through and skids along the ceiling, ripping off the plaster before falling back to the ground. He is on the 3 floor of the next building which is a  makeshift farm that used to be an apartment.<br /><br />---------------Some scene happens here----------------------<br /><br />He stands in the middle of the corridor, waiting for the helicopters to get in position. Then he sprints for the window, just before the end he launches himself
