---
layout: post
title: Holy shit moments
date: 2012-12-30 18:47
author: admin
comments: true
categories: [Technology]
---
I have referred to this before in a previous post but <a title="The Answer of Life Part 7/42 – Mystery box" href="http://blog.havinderatwal.com/2012/03/the-answer-of-life-part-742-mystery-box/">here it is if you needed it</a>.

I have basically ripped this from <a href="http://www.randsinrepose.com/archives/2002/07/05/your_holy_shit_list.html">http://www.randsinrepose.com/archives/2002/07/05/your_holy_shit_list.html</a> but since he hasn't updated it recently and he lives in a different generation from me, I decided I need to make my own.

So he has a litmus test of 1) Telling random people about it 2) Explaining it someone who doesn't understand what you are talking about. I want to edit this a bit, so my test: 1) Me first thinking that's nothing or that won't change anything, then I end up buying it / using it later and then realise how did I live without this? This has changed me. 2) Pretty much the same except that if I explain it then realise I actually don't know why I like this either now that I've explained it then it shouldn't go on this list.

<strong>iPhone</strong>

This passed the first litmus test. My friend was an early adopter of the first iPhone, we all ridiculed him. My dislike for Apple's ethos reared it's head. You can't load your own apps, Nokia have had this for years. You can't copy and paste but you have a fully fledged browser, this sucks. A year or two later I was due for an upgrade my friend who worked for a phone company at the time told me he could get a discount on the new iPhone 3G. Hmm that or Android, which was just starting out? I took the offer and I remember leaving the phone at home unopened while I went to chill out with some friends, I was really not that bothered. Then with every major iOS update that was like a lot of minor holy shit moments.

<strong>Spotify</strong>

I remember hearing about this when it first came out and thinking I have to try this. When I typed a song name in, it just came up and I just hit play. That was it, I realised that subscription based music is going to be the future, although I wouldn't pay for the subscription for at least a few years.It was as if every song was my fingertips, there a few glaring abandonees but it was so much better then any other music streaming service out there. I think Deezer was the one that came close but their lack of songs and clunky interface put me off. Also a lot of people were still using Youtube for all their music needs and this was before they had play lists! So this combined simple UI, playlists and offline mode (useful for phones).

<strong>Pluto</strong>

A bit of a strange one but it was the idea that a group of people just decided that a massive ball of rock can't have the same status of other massive balls of rock. Science was a big part of my childhood and to know that this will be erased from the school text books is astounding, think in just a few generation no one will know that Pluto is a planet. They will just know as piece of rock. I feel as if Pluto should defend itself, I mean it soooo big how can anyone change it? Also the letters written to the IAU by kids were quite funny. The outrage from <a href="http://www.google.co.uk/url?sa=t&amp;rct=j&amp;q=&amp;esrc=s&amp;source=web&amp;cd=8&amp;cad=rja&amp;ved=0CF8QFjAH&amp;url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.uni.edu%2Fearth%2Fsites%2Fdefault%2Ffiles%2Fwebform%2Ffor_pluto.pdf&amp;ei=b23gUMeuIo3K0AWTxYHQCw&amp;usg=AFQjCNGrowTSaqwFXEmoNn4rsQIOAblT7A">everyone else even more hilarious</a>.

<strong>Ultrabook / DVDs
</strong>

I've never owned a tablet, so this is probably all the more reason why this is a holy shit moment. Just being able to carry this anywhere and not worry about the weight is truly liberating. I now even leave the house thinking should I take my ultrabook and then I end up taking it without any consequence at all.

Also the lack of DVD drive is another moment. When I got the ultrabook I then realised then I am never going to use a DVD or CD or burn anything ever again. Before then I could see that I was making and using less of the optical format anyway but this sealed the deal.

&nbsp;
