---
layout: post
title: Fight Club & Buddhism
date: 2013-05-17 19:29
author: admin
comments: true
categories: [Technology]
---
Recently I have taken a liking to Buddhism. I'm not sure if it was the mysticism or the just relaxed approached they had to anything, it could be that some of my favourite entrepreneurs follow it as well. I also like Fight club but how do the two relate for me?

First up if you haven't watched Fight Club then you need to see not only for this article but just because it is a great film.

So Buddhism is the latest in my line of religions to investigate. It started with the Dalai Lama becoming a bit more prominent in the news over the last few years and I started reading a bit about his teachings as well as listening to some interviews with him (well, his translator). Then he decided to visit my city, which was awefully nice of him.

I went to visit him at my local arena. It was aimed at the youth so under 25's were allowed in for free and this was clearly aimed at them. Russell Brand was the compare, which in an attempt to appeal to the youth it was probably not the best choice. Although Russell admitted was surprisingly a keen follower of the Dalai Lama. The Dalai Lama made some comments of the youth of today and how they should be empowered especially in todays' times.

&nbsp;

<strong>The Buddhist Center</strong>

After some internet research I surprisingly found quite a few centers around this city but the most prominent was The Buddhist Center. To be honest they had the best website and the most number of events.

On a some days of the week they have a session which like a beginners drop-in. It's pretty much an introduction to Buddhism.

Now I found this out pretty fast, the center follows a certain style or path of Buddhism which is part of the Triratna Order. This is a westernised version of much older order started on the far east. The center doesn't explictly stated this but is mentioned in some of their documentation and it is mentioned in passing during some discussions. This also means there are other orders, so I'll get back to that.

I went to my first drop-in session it was an early Saturday morning start, so I expected all the early risers to attend. I wasn't wrong. Everyone was gathered around in a lounge/kitchen area beforehand. It seemed that most people knew each other, some appeared to part of the community, others were part of closed friend groups.

We went to one of the prayer rooms which was sizeable but then quickly filled up as I realised everyone was going to sit. No mention of why it was recommended to sit on the floor, you didn't have to of course and chairs were provided.

The lesson were going to have had some structure but did seem to be winged on content. Over the course of next few months, I had different leaders over a course of topics which led me to a big realisation

Fight Club

So if you remember a particular scene where Tyler starts to attend the various support groups and get some kind of pleasure of this.

&nbsp;
