---
layout: post
title: End of Year 2015
comments: True
---

That was 2015 and what a busy year it has been (still just as amazing).

### Let's begin...

The year started off with a bang. The washing machine broke. I found out a colleague was secretly a famous DJ. Elite Dangerous was taking up a lot of gaming time. This was going to get better.

I always write these with chronology in mind, basically because I'm gong through my calendar as I write this. That's rubbishy though as this would end up being a glorified list with my trying to review tweets from January. Hmmm let's try sections!

## Job
The biggest thing this year for me was moving jobs. Considering I've been in my last one for nearly 4 years and the market has completely changed, hell I've even got a different skill set. This was going to be a arduous task. 

Luckily I had some really good help, my housemate and good friend is in recruitment. He helped a lot, I quickly got accustomed on how to interact with recruiters. How to leverage the best position and promote yourself, so they can put you across in the way you want.

The other side to this is the market in IT. 4 years ago I was struggling to find job specs that wanted the experience I had. Now? I didn't even have a chance to apply, I was immediately inundated with calls and email straight out of the bat. I was seemingly the prefect candidate for most jobs. 
I learned a few things here. Get burners: Create a temporary email address and get another SIM card. I think the IT industry was a special case here but I was just not prepared for the amount of calls and messages I was going to receive. Even now after pulling my CV down from the job sites (yes I checked twice) I'm still getting calls. The recruitment industry is just crazy, they will hound you down until every last drop of blood is taken. I'm just reminded of a cattle market.

I was sad to leave my old company, especially the people I worked with. On the hand there was just no opportunity to push yourself and the industry I was working for didn't allow creativity or passion. It was insurance after all. I moved to a consultancy and now it's much better work, working on new projects  a few times a year (if you are lucky). The pay has to be addressed as well, most programmers probably don't mind as much as other professionals and maybe I was just ignorant about it. I was really underpaid in my last job, even with one recruiting claiming my pay rise to my new job was the biggest she's ever seen. I do feel I am now getting what I deserve in terms of work.

## Hobbies
This is becoming another big year for my other "work". The Manchester Space Programme is turning into a mature organisation. We have managed to secure private funding and thus had to become a CIC to open a bank account to cash the damn cheque. Phew! I'm trying to keep myself at arms length with this, I've realised I was doing most of the work and I'm trying to leave behind little responsibility vacuums(?) so other people can fill in. This will let me concentrate on the bits I like best, programming and technology. Even now as I write this I am solely responsible for getting PCB boards  manufactured and populated. I'm not an electronics engineer!

My big expense in hobbies this year has to be skiing. I've only had a one day lesson and 1 hour practise run so far but I think I am picking it up well. I only judge this by my ability to stop and link turns. I'm not going to count the amount of times I've fallen over. There is something wonderful about it. The ability to travel at high speeds, gliding over snow yet have very little barriers between you and the ground. I can understand the rush.

Photography made a big appearance for me this year. I took up a adult education class and finally got rid of the clunky SLR for a shiny RX100. Hmmm so tasty.

## Holidays

Only three trips abroad this year. Shock, horror! Interestingly I've managed to fly on 12 planes, I'm not sure if that's a good thing. The first trip was to Kracow, I was worried initially about if we had enough things to do. Those fears were soon availed. 

Next was an impromptu visit to Vilnius, Lithuania. Thanks Daniel! But what a journey and the friends were great. 

Finally the big trip of the year was Japan. Going back since I was a teenager was well worth it. 

## Highlights
There were definitely some highlights, I liken them to the set pieces in films. Things just come together for a great moment or even a series of events. 

The start of the year kicked it off with Beer festivals. I went more this year then before and some of the venues were stunning. In January there was Blackjack brewery, held in warehouse full of distillery equipment, almost like a piss up in a brewery. Then on the same month there was Beer and Cider fest in the velodrome. Such a strange experience getting very drunk in the middle of an active cycle track.

Giving blood, 

## Dating
Surprisingly this was an active year for (potential) dating. Starting with a speed dating event and ending with a potential.
Speed dating was a new one for me. I took to it like a duck to water, I think some friends were a bit worried about my over enthusiasm.

